Question: What is the purpose of the "Accounts Receivable Weeks to Collect" category?
Answer: The purpose of the "Accounts Receivable Weeks to Collect" category is to determine the time period over which the beginning accounts receivables will be collected in cash. It allows for the even collection of the beginning accounts receivables over a specified time. This category also provides the option to input the average weeks to collect for future years, which will be used to calculate the collection period for accounts receivables in those years. If no input is provided for future years, the default value will be the input for the beginning accounts receivables balance. This category is used in the accounts receivable set up pages for the transaction sheet and the existing company accounts receivable beginning balances.
---
Question: How is the collection of Beginning Accounts Receivables distributed over time?
Answer: The collection of Beginning Accounts Receivables is evenly distributed over a specified period of time. The time period over which the Beginning A/R will be collected in cash is determined by the input for "Accounts Receivable Weeks to Collect" on the Accounts Receivable Set Up pages. This input should be a whole number and not a portion of a week. If no value is provided for this input, or if it is left blank, a default value of 0 will be used, indicating that all sales will be collected in the sale period. 
It is important to note that this distribution of collection time only applies to the Beginning A/R balances. For future years, the input for "Future Ave Weeks to Collect" will be used for the Horizon Period Years. If no value is provided for the future years, the input for the Beginning A/R balance will be used as the default. 
In the case of an Existing Company purchasing a Target Company, a weighted average will be calculated for Year 1 between the Weeks to Carry listed on the Transaction Sheet for the Target Company and the Weeks to Carry for the Existing Company. For subsequent years, the selections in the Ave Weeks to Collect in the Future Input will be used without any weighted average calculation. If there are no inputs for the Ave Weeks to Collect in the Future and no selection indicated in the Transaction Sheet, the entry for the Existing Company will be used for future years.
---
Question: What happens if there is no selection for the future years in the "Future Ave Weeks to Collect" input?
Answer: If there is no selection for the future years in the "Future Ave Weeks to Collect" input, the default value for future years will be the input for the Beginning A/R balance. In other words, if the "Future Ave Weeks to Collect" input is left blank, the system will use the value entered for the Beginning A/R balance. If the Beginning A/R balance is also left blank or set to 0, then all sales will be assumed to be collected in the sale period.
---
Question: What is the default value for future years if the "Beginning A/R balance" input is left blank?
Answer: If the "Beginning A/R balance" input is left blank, the default value for future years will be 0. This means that all sales will be collected in the sale period.
---
Question: How is the weighted average calculated for Year 1 if the Existing Company is purchasing the Target Company?
Answer: For Year 1, if the Existing Company is purchasing the Target Company, the weighted average for the Weeks to Collect will be calculated. This calculation is based on the Weeks to Carry listed on the Transaction Sheet for the Target Company and the Weeks to Carry for the Existing Company. The weighted average takes into account the proportion of the Target Company's Weeks to Carry and the Existing Company's Weeks to Carry in determining the overall average for Year 1.
However, for Years after Year 1, the weighted average calculation is not used. Instead, the selections in the Ave Weeks to Collect in the Future Input will be used without any weighted average calculation. If there are no inputs for the Ave Weeks to Collect in the Future and no selection indicated in the Transaction Sheet, the entry for the Existing Company will be used for future years.
---
Question: What happens if there are no inputs for the "Ave Weeks to Collect in the Future" and no selection indicated in the Transaction Sheet for future years?
Answer: If there are no inputs for the "Ave Weeks to Collect in the Future" and no selection indicated in the Transaction Sheet for future years, the entry for the Existing Company will be used for future years. This means that the Weeks to Collect for future years will be based on the average number of weeks it takes for the Existing Company to collect its accounts receivable.
---
Question: Where can the "Accounts Receivable Weeks to Collect" input be found for the Transaction Sheet and the Existing Company Accounts Receivable Beginning Balances?
Answer: The "Accounts Receivable Weeks to Collect" input can be found in the Accounts Receivable Set Up pages for both the Transaction Sheet and the Existing Company Accounts Receivable Beginning Balances.
---
Question: What does the "Accounts Receivable Future Weeks to Collect" input apply to?
Answer: The "Accounts Receivable Future Weeks to Collect" input applies to the number of weeks on average that the Accounts Receivables will be outstanding in the future Horizon Period years selected by the User. It is used to determine the time it takes for the company to collect cash from its customers for sales made on credit. This input is found in the Accounts Receivable - Future Terms Set-Up Input page.
---
Question: How is "Weeks to Collect" defined for Accounts Receivables?
Answer: "Weeks to Collect" for Accounts Receivables refers to the average number of weeks it takes to collect outstanding payments from customers. It is a measure of the time it takes for the Beginning Accounts Receivables to be collected in cash. 
The collection of Beginning Accounts Receivables is evenly spread out over the specified time period. This time period is determined by the input for "Accounts Receivable Weeks to Collect" on the Accounts Receivable Set Up pages for the Transaction Sheet and the Existing Company Accounts Receivable Beginning Balances.
If no input is provided for the future years, the default value for future years will be the input for the Beginning Accounts Receivables balance. If the input is left blank or set to 0, all sales will be assumed to be collected in the sale period.
In the case of a company acquisition, for Year 1, a weighted average is calculated between the Weeks to Collect listed on the Transaction Sheet for the Target Company and the Weeks to Collect for the Existing Company. For subsequent years, the input for "Ave Weeks to Collect in the Future" will be used without any weighted average calculation. If there are no inputs for the future years and no selection indicated in the Transaction Sheet, the entry for the Existing Company will be used for future years.
The input for "Accounts Receivable Future Weeks to Collect" is used for future Horizon Period years selected by the user. It represents the average number of weeks that the Accounts Receivables are expected to be outstanding in those future years.
It is important to note that the input for "Weeks to Collect" should be a whole number and not a fraction of a week.
---
Question: What should be the format of the input for "Accounts Receivable Future Weeks to Collect"?
Answer: The input for "Accounts Receivable Future Weeks to Collect" should be a whole number and not a portion of a week.
