Question: What are Accounts Receivables?
Answer: Accounts Receivables are generated when sales are made to customers without receiving the cash for the sale. In accrual accounting, a sale is booked when the customer purchases or takes delivery of the item or product, regardless of whether the customer has paid for the sale. This creates an obligation from the customer to pay the company for the item or product purchased, which becomes the Accounts Receivable. Accounts Receivables are categorized based on their age from the point of sale, typically expressed as less than 30 days, 30-60 days, 60-90 days, and over 90 days. They can also be used as collateral for an Accounts Receivable Loan, with the loan amount typically being a percentage of the Accounts Receivables that are less than 60 days old. Accounts Receivables over 60 days are often considered ineligible for such loans.
---
Question: How are Accounts Receivables aged?
Answer: Accounts Receivables are aged based on how old they are from the point of sale. This aging is often expressed in categories such as "Less than 30 days," "30-60 days," "60-90 days," and "Over 90 days." The age of an Accounts Receivable is determined by the number of days that have passed since the sale was made and the payment was due.
---
Question: How are Accounts Receivables often used as collateral?
Answer: Accounts Receivables are often used as collateral for an Accounts Receivable Loan. The Loan to Value (LTV) for an Accounts Receivable Loan is typically 50%-80% of the Accounts Receivables that are less than 60 days old. Accounts Receivables that are over 60 days old are often considered ineligible for collateral. This means that a company can borrow money using their outstanding Accounts Receivables as security. The lender will assess the value of the Accounts Receivables and provide a loan based on a percentage of that value. If the borrower fails to repay the loan, the lender can seize the Accounts Receivables to recover their funds.
---
Question: What are the calculations for Accounts Receivable aging?
Answer: The calculations for Accounts Receivable aging are based on user inputs for average weeks to collect the Accounts Receivable. 
For beginning A/R invoices that are 0-30 days old, the percentage of invoices in this category is calculated by dividing a standard 4 weeks for the 0-30 day category by the weighted average of the user inputs for the beginning A/R weeks outstanding by category for the total A/R. The collection of the beginning A/R will start in week #1 and be collected evenly over the weeks indicated.
For new sales invoices that are 0-30 days old, the percentage of invoices in this category is calculated by dividing a standard 4 weeks for the 0-30 day category by the user input for the future average weeks outstanding for the total A/R. The collection of the A/R will start in the week indicated and be collected evenly over the weeks indicated.
The calculation for A/R sales invoices that are 30-60 days old is the leftover calculation after the 0-30 day category has been set and the over 60 day (loan reserve) category has been set. The days to collect for 30-60 day invoices are simply the number of days required to make the average between the three categories match the average weeks to carry for the total A/R. This number will not go negative and will become zero in such cases.
For beginning A/R sales invoices that are 30-60 days old, the indicated percentage of beginning A/R will start collection in week #1 and be collected evenly over the weeks indicated. For new sales invoices that are 30-60 days old, the indicated percentage will start collection in the week indicated and be collected evenly over the weeks indicated.
There is a default maximum for the weeks to begin collection for 30-60 day old sales of 8 weeks. The lesser of the default maximum or the calculated amount will be used.
For beginning A/R sales invoices over 60 days, the indicated percentage of beginning A/R will start collection in week #1 and be collected evenly over the weeks indicated.
For new sales invoices, the over 60 day category will be made up of the loan reserve amounts. The indicated percentage will start collection in the week indicated and be collected evenly over the weeks indicated. The week to start collection for the over 60 day invoices will be calculated with the average weeks for the total A/R as an overriding factor. For example, if the average weeks for the total A/R is 4 weeks, then the over 60 day category cannot be more than 4 weeks.
---
Question: How is cash used in relation to Accounts Receivables?
Answer: Cash is used in relation to Accounts Receivables in several ways. 
Firstly, when sales are made, income is reported even if the cash has not been received yet. This means that Accounts Receivables are generated when sales are made but the cash has not been received. 
Secondly, expenses are recognized when they are incurred, even if they have not been paid yet. For example, when inventory is built or manufactured, cash is used but it is not recognized as an expense until the inventory is sold (Cost of Goods Sold). 
As Accounts Receivables are collected and inventory is sold, the cash is used to pay down the Accounts Receivable and Inventory loans. This means that as cash is received from the collection of Accounts Receivables, it includes the conversion of inventory into cash.
On the other hand, cash is generated when new Accounts Receivables are generated and new inventory is purchased or manufactured. This means that as new Accounts Receivables are generated and new inventory is acquired, the Accounts Receivable and Inventory loans will increase according to the terms set up by the user.
It is important to note that if the user has chosen to override sales and cost of goods sold with a direct EBITDA override, the Accounts Receivable and Inventory balance will be the prior year ending balance minus any current year write-offs. In this case, there will be no change in cash required due to changes in Accounts Receivables, Inventory, or Accounts Payable, except for the current year's write-offs of Accounts Receivables and Inventory.
---
Question: How is cash generated in relation to Accounts Receivables?
Answer: Cash is generated in relation to Accounts Receivables through the collection of outstanding payments from customers. When sales are made and customers do not immediately pay for the purchases, it creates an Accounts Receivable. As customers make payments towards their outstanding balances, cash is received, which reduces the Accounts Receivable balance. The collection of Accounts Receivables includes the conversion of inventory into cash, as inventory is sold and customers pay for their purchases. Additionally, when new Accounts Receivables are generated through new sales, it increases the amount of cash received. The terms and conditions set by the user in the Accounts Receivable - Future Terms Set-Up and the Debt Input pages determine the increase or decrease in cash based on the collection of Accounts Receivables.
---
Question: What happens if an EBITDA Override is in effect?
Answer: If an EBITDA Override is in effect, it means that the user has chosen to override the sales and cost of goods sold (COGS) with a direct EBITDA override. In this case, the accounts receivable (AR) and inventory balance will be based on the prior year's ending balance, adjusted for any current year write-offs. This means that there will be no change in cash required due to changes in AR, inventory, or accounts payable (A/P), except for the current year's write-offs of AR and inventory.
It's important to note that there are no adjusting journal entries (AJEs) available for AR or inventory in this scenario. However, adjustments can still be made using the write-off process, which can be found in the Transaction Sheet Asset Input for AR and inventory write-off inputs.
