Question: What are Surplus Funds?
Answer: Surplus Funds refer to the excess amount of funds provided through debt and equity contributions in a transaction that are not required for that specific transaction. These surplus funds can be generated from new debt or cash equity contributions made for the transaction, or from pre-existing debt assumed from the seller and used in the transaction. 
In the context of an acquisition escrow, if there are surplus funds, they will be considered distributed to the equity groups involved in the transaction. The distribution will be based on the percentage of their equity contributions or, if there were no equity contributions, their equity ownership in the company. This distribution will be reflected as an equity distribution in the equity section of the post-closing beginning balance sheet.
It is important to note that if there are surplus funds, the internal rate of return (IRR) and modified internal rate of return (MIRR) calculations will default to "0" because there is no investment on which to calculate a return.
---
Question: How can Surplus Funds be created in a Transaction?
Answer: Surplus Funds can be created in a Transaction in two ways. 
Firstly, Surplus Funds can be generated through new debt or cash equity contributions made specifically for the Transaction. If the amount of funds provided through these contributions exceeds the amount required for the Transaction, the excess amount will be considered Surplus Funds.
Secondly, Surplus Funds can also be created by utilizing pre-existing debt assumed from the Seller in the Transaction. If the debt assumed from the Seller is more than what is needed for the Transaction, the additional amount will be considered Surplus Funds.
In both cases, if there are Surplus Funds, they will be distributed during the acquisition escrow to the Equity Groups involved in the Transaction. The distribution will be based on the percentage of their equity contributions or, if there were no equity contributions, their equity ownership in the Company. This distribution will be reflected as an Equity distribution in the Equity Section of the post-closing beginning Balance Sheet.
It is important to note that if there are Surplus Funds, the calculations for Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and Modified Internal Rate of Return (MIRR) will default to "0" since there is no investment on which to calculate a return.
---
Question: How are Surplus Funds distributed during the acquisition escrow?
Answer: Surplus Funds created from new debt or equity contributions are distributed during the acquisition escrow to the Equity Groups. The distribution is based on the percentage of their equity contributions or, in the absence of equity contributions, their equity ownership in the Company. This distribution is reflected as an Equity distribution in the Equity Section of the post-closing beginning Balance Sheet.
---
Question: How are Surplus Funds reflected in the post closing beginning Balance Sheet?
Answer: Surplus Funds created from new debt or equity contributions will be considered distributed during the acquisition escrow to the Equity Groups in the percentage of their equity contributions or in the case of no equity contributions, their equity ownership in the Company. These distributed Surplus Funds will be reflected as an Equity distribution in the Equity Section of the post closing beginning Balance Sheet.
---
Question: What happens to the IRR/MIRR calculations if there are Surplus Funds?
Answer: If there are Surplus Funds in a transaction, the IRR/MIRR calculations will default to "0". This means that no return on investment can be calculated because there is no investment made with the surplus funds. Surplus Funds are created when there are more funds provided through debt and equity contributions than what is required for the transaction. These surplus funds can come from new debt or cash equity contributions generated for the transaction, or from pre-existing debt assumed from the seller. In the case of surplus funds, they will be considered distributed during the acquisition escrow to the Equity Groups based on the percentage of their equity contributions or their equity ownership in the company if there are no equity contributions. The distribution of surplus funds will be reflected as an equity distribution in the Equity Section of the post-closing beginning Balance Sheet.
